1.Tiny and wonderful creatures
Have you ever seen tiny creatures marching in your kitchen? Have you ever wondered where they come from and where they go? Can you guess who they are? Yes! They are ants! Ants are part of the insect kingdom.
They are way more ecologically important than you think they are. Some ants live on other animals and protect them from parasites. Some ant colonies feed on a sugary liquid made by aphids. Some ants harvest seeds. Leaf cutter ants even grow fungus to feed the colony. Good farmers! Aren't they?
Fun fact:

2.Social Ants
Did you know ants live in colonies? Actually they are eusocial insects.
There are three castes of ants in an ants colony and each of them  performs different roles.
Queens are females who were fed more when they were larvae, so they’re bigger than the workers. The queens lay all the eggs in the colony (amounting to millions in some species). They have wings and fly to find a mate. They tear their wings off before forming a new colony. After mating, the queen starts a new nest (colony) and raises her first worker offspring. This is the only time in her life that the queen does any work other than laying eggs.
Workers are females who were fed less when they were larvae. Workers are wingless and don’t reproduce. They do all the other jobs in the colony, including gathering food, building the nest and taking care of the young.  
Males have wings and fly to mate with queens. The males don’t do any chores in the colony. Their only job is to mate with the queens. They die shortly after mating.
Communication:


Do you know how ants communicate with their nest-mates ? They don't talk like us. Instead they give out scents called Pheromones. Other ants receive the Pheromones using their antennae. Pheromones help the ants to trace back their nests after food hunt. they also leave Pheromones when they go back home after food hunt.  When the food is near by an ants colony, the ant can take many trips in a short period. So the scent will be stronger in that trail. So the shortest trail has the strongest scent. This will be the preferred trail by other ants. Now you can imagine how they are marching in a straight line onto your dining table.
Fun fact:
3.Life cycle
Ants like other insects have their own life cycle. There are four stages in their life-cycle, Egg, Larva , Pupa and Adult. 

Egg: The first stage of an ant's life  is an egg. It is oval shaped and tiny. But Queen's egg is a little bit larger than other eggs. Only Queen ants can lay eggs. The worker ants take care of the eggs.

Larva: the second stage of  the ant's life cycle is Larva. Once the egg hatches, a larva wriggles out of the shell. A larva doesn’t move much. It is taken care by a few worker ants. Larvae keep eating. It grows rapidly.
Pupa: After 10-14 days, the larva spins a cocoon around itself this stage of the ant’s life is called pupa. During this stage the ant does not eat. Just sleeps!


Adult: Once the ant comes out of the cocoon, it is an adult ant. If it is a queen it will go and start a new colony and it will have wings. 

Fun fact:

4.Body Parts of an Ant:

Like other insects, ants don’t have bones. They have an exoskeleton. An exoskeleton is a hard covering around the ant’s body. 
An ant is divided into three parts. These parts are head, thorax and abdomen. 
In the head, there are compound eyes, antennae and  mandibles. 
In the thorax, the six legs are held. The thorax is the middle part of the ant's body.
In the abdomen, there are the internal organs. The abdomen is the last part of the ant's body.


